# cmse492_project
Project Title: A Comprehensive Catalog of Classical Variable Stars in TESS

GitHub Repository Link: https://github.com/jadynwaggoner/cmse492_project

Brief project description and project objectives: The goal of this project is to accurately identify and catalog classical variable stars using machine learning algorithms. Data from individual stars collected during NASA’s Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) primary mission were visually cleaned and sorted using plotted light curves, then used to train various sci-kit-learn machine learning algorithms. The categories that the stars get sorted into are RR Lyraes, classical Cepheids, γ Doradus, δ Scutis, contact eclipsing binaries, detached eclipsing binaries, non-variable stars, and miscellaneous. The miscellaneous category identifies special cases that don’t fit any known classical variable types, which can lead to compelling discoveries. Utilizing the results from this project, stars from the TESS extended missions will be roughly categorized as the data becomes available. Having these categorized datasets will be useful for any scientist looking to study a specific type of variable star without being required to visually sift through millions of targets

Folder structure explanation: There are 5 main folders in the repository structure: data, notebooks, reports, results, and src. The data folder contains subfolders titled raw and processed, and the raw folder will contain the data that I directly download from the TESS full frame image portal and from VizieR. The processed folder will contain the data after it has been sorted into the known variable star types and manually cleaned. The notebooks folder contains the subfolder exploratory which will contain all my exploring and testing python notebooks, and the subfolder final for my final cleaned and commented code. The reports folder will contain my interim and final written reports for the project. The results folder will contain the final figures and models for my project once I create them. The src folder will contain the source code for the data, features, models, and visualizations.

Instructions for setting up and running code/Dependencies or requirements: For this assignment most of my time was spent in the writing and testing phase so I do not have a full easy to use notebook written up yet, but I am continuing to work on making it much more user friendly. For now I have created a notebook that contains all the functions I created and comments with how to use them. I will continue to work on writing my code in a more final and user friendly way.

Most information is now in the final report
